Adding search shard routing docs (#7656)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _search-plugins/searching-data/search-shard-routing.md

## Adaptive replica selection

In OpenSearch, in order to improve latency, search requests are routed using _adaptive replica selection_, which chooses the nodes based on the following factors:

- The time it took a particular node to run previous requests.
- The latency between the coordinating node and selected node.
- The size of the queue of the node's search thread pool.

If you have permissions to call the OpenSearch REST APIs, you can turn off search shard routing. For more information about the REST API user access, see [REST management API settings]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/security-settings/#rest-management-api-settings). To disable search shard routing, update the cluster settings as follows:

```json
PUT /_cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "cluster.routing.use_adaptive_replica_selection": false
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

If you turn off search shard routing, OpenSearch will use round-robin routing, which can negatively impact search latency.
{: .note}

## Node and shard selection during searches

> OpenSearch uses all nodes to choose the best routing for search requests. However, there might be reasons why you want to manually select the nodes or shards to which the search request is sent. Some of these reasons are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch uses all nodes to choose the best routing for search requests. However, in some cases you may want to manually select the nodes or shards to which the search request is sent, including the following:
```

- Using cached previous searches.

> - Dedicating specific hardware for searches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Dedicating specific hardware to searches.
```

- Using only local nodes for searches.

You can use the `preference` parameter in the search query to indicate the destination for the search. The following is the complete list of available options:

> 1. `_primary`: Forces the search to execute only on primary shards.

Reviewer: Should each of these end in a colon?

Author: I don't believe so, unless we rework this part entirely, not to have colon and colon in the same line.

Reviewer: @AntonEliatra That's a fair point, and I realize we're using a slightly different structure here than usual, so either way is fine with me 😄.

    ```json
    GET /my-index/_search?preference=_primary
    ```
    {% include copy-curl.html %}

> 2. `_primary_first`: Prefers primary shards but will use replica shards if the primary is not available.

Reviewer: "the primary is" => either "the primary shard is" or "primary shards are"

    ```json
    GET /my-index/_search?preference=_primary_first
    ```
    {% include copy-curl.html %}

3. `_replica`: Forces the search to execute only on replica shards.

    ```json
    GET /my-index/_search?preference=_replica
    ```
    {% include copy-curl.html %}

> 4. `_replica_first`: Prefers replica shards but will use primary shards if no replicas are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. `_replica_first`: Prefers replica shards but will use primary shards if no replica shards are available.
```

    ```json
    GET /my-index/_search?preference=_replica_first
    ```
    {% include copy-curl.html %}

> 5. `_only_nodes:<node-id>,<node-id>`: Limits the search to execute only on specific nodes by their IDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. `_only_nodes:<node-id>,<node-id>`: Limits the search to execute only on specific nodes according to their IDs.
```

    ```json
    GET /my-index/_search?preference=_only_nodes:node-1,node-2
    ```
    {% include copy-curl.html %}

> 6. `_prefer_nodes:<node-id>,<node-id>`: Prefers to execute the search on specific nodes but will use other nodes if the preferred ones are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. `_prefer_nodes:<node-id>,<node-id>`: Prefers to execute the search on specific nodes but will use other nodes if the preferred nodes are not available.
```

### Routing during searches

When you search for documents, specifying the same routing value ensures that the search request is routed to the appropriate shard. This can significantly improve performance by reducing the number of shards that need to be queried.

Here’s an example of searching with a specific routing value:

```json
GET /index1/_search?routing=user1
{
  "query": {
    "match": {
      "name": "John Doe"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

In this example, the search query is routed to the shard that contains documents indexed with the routing value `user1`.

Additional consideration needs to be taken when using custom routing in order to prevent hot spots and data skew:

 - A _hot spot_ occurs when a disproportionate number of documents are routed to a single shard. This can lead to that shard becoming a bottleneck, because it will have to handle more read and write operations compared to other shards. Consequently, this shard may experience higher CPU, memory, and I/O usage, leading to performance degradation.

>  - _Data skew_ refers to an uneven distribution of data across shards. If routing values are not evenly distributed, some shards may end up storing significantly more data than others. This can result in an imbalanced storage use, where certain nodes have a much higher disk utilization compared to others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - _Data skew_ refers to an uneven distribution of data across shards. If routing values are not evenly distributed, some shards may end up storing significantly more data than others. This can result in imbalanced storage usage, where certain nodes have a much higher disk utilization compared to others.
```

## Concurrent shard request

> Hitting a large number of shards simultaneously during a search can significantly impact the CPU and memory consumption. By default, OpenSearch does not reject these requests. However, there are number of methods that you can use to mitigate this risk. The following sections describe these methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hitting a large number of shards simultaneously during a search can significantly impact CPU and memory consumption. By default, OpenSearch does not reject these requests. However, there are a number of methods that you can use to mitigate this risk. The following sections describe these methods.
```

### Limit the number of shards that can be queried

> 

Reviewer: Line below: Should `12` be in code font?

> You can use the `max_concurrent_shard_requests` parameter in the search request to limit it to a maximum number of shards that can be queried. For example, the following request limits the number of concurrent shard requests to 12:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `max_concurrent_shard_requests` parameter in the search request to limit the number of shards that can be queried concurrently. For example, the following request limits the number of concurrent shard requests to 12:
```

```json
GET /index1/_search?max_concurrent_shard_requests=12
{
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Define a search shard count limit

> 

Reviewer: Line below: "with an error" => "and throw an error"?

> You can define the dynamic `action.search.shard_count.limit` setting in `opensearch.yml` file or using the REST API. Any search request that attempts to query the number of shards that exceeds this limit will be rejected with an error. This helps prevent a single search request from consuming too many resources, which can degrade the performance of the entire cluster. The following example updates this cluster setting using the API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define the dynamic `action.search.shard_count.limit` setting either in your `opensearch.yml` file or by using the REST API. Any search request that exceeds this limit will be rejected with an error. This helps to prevent a single search request from consuming too many resources, which can degrade the performance of the entire cluster. The following example request updates this cluster setting using the API:
```

```json
PUT /_cluster/settings
{
  "transient": {
    "action.search.shard_count.limit": 1000
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Search thread pool

OpenSearch uses thread pools to manage the execution of various tasks, including search operations. The search thread pool is specifically used for search requests. You can adjust the size and queue capacity of the search thread pool by adding the following settings to `opensearch.yml`:
```
thread_pool.search.size: 100
thread_pool.search.queue_size: 1000
```

> This setting is static, for further details on how to configure dynamic and static settings see [Configuring OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setting is static. For more information about how to configure dynamic and static settings, see [Configuring OpenSearch]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/install-and-configure/configuring-opensearch/index/).
```

> #### How thread pools work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Thread pool states
```

> There following three states describe how the thread pools work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following three states describe thread pool operations:
```

>  - _Thread Assignment_: If there are available threads in the search thread pool, the request is immediately assigned to a thread and begins processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - _Thread Assignment_: If there are available threads in the search thread pool, then the request is immediately assigned to a thread and begins processing.
```
